        OCTOBER TERM 2026  DEXTER MORGAN, Petitioner  V.  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA __________________________________________________________________  On Writ of Certiorari to the United States Court of Appeals for the Thirteenth Circuit  No. 954-354 __________________________________________________________________                           

JUDGE FENTON delivered the opinion of the Court.  Dexter Morgan appeals the final judgment of the district court. Morgan raises two issues on appeal. First, whether the collection of real-time cell site location information (“CSLI”) data constitutes a search within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, and, consequently, requires a warrant to be obtained. Second, whether the district court impermissibly erred in allowing the admission of other-acts evidence pursuant to Rule 404(b).   I. BACKGROUND On September 30th, 2007, two scuba divers set out to explore the Miami coastline. Instead of treasure, the divers stumbled upon several dozen black garbage bags. To their horror, these bags, which appeared to have been resting on the seafloor for any number of years, contained various human body parts. The site of this macabre discovery would soon be recognized as a massive underground graveyard. After the divers brought word of their find to the authorities, the bags were brought ashore by the boatful. As the body count grew, it became increasingly clear that they were likely the work of a prolific serial killer—perhaps the deadliest in history. The local police station, Miami Metro, and its captain, Maria LaGuerta, were quick to open an investigation into the matter. The press, similarly, wasted no time. Within hours of the discovery, the mystery killer was dubbed the “Bay Harbor Butcher,” a reference to the body of water in which the graveyard was found. The search to find and capture the “Butcher” would become the largest and most resource-intensive operation in Miami Metro’s history. The Federal Bureau of Investigation quickly assumed control of the matter, sending Special Agent Frank Lundy to lead the investigation and form a joint task force. His first prerogative was an around-the-clock undertaking to identify the victims and discern some commonality between them.  It didn’t take long for a pattern to emerge. All eighteen victims (dubbed the “Bay Harbor Eighteen”) were identified as individuals who had previously been tried for murder and subsequently acquitted in a surprising reversal of popular expectation. The news media, speculating to the motive, began to depict the Bay Harbor Butcher as a sort of self-styled vigilante.  Within Miami Metro, pre-existing rivalries and personality differences complicated the investigation. Appellant, Dexter Morgan, was a senior forensic analyst employed by the homicide department. His assignments frequently placed him on the same cases as Detective James Doakes, another long-time employee with Miami Metro Homicide. Most personnel within the department were aware of a long-standing feud between Morgan and Doakes, which typically manifested via various taunts and jeers. These jabs almost exclusively originated with Doakes. However, that particular September saw an escalation of tensions between the coworkers. Two weeks into the investigation, Morgan and Doakes were engaged in a physical altercation inside the office. The next day, Morgan 

asked LaGuerta to file a professional complaint against Doakes, claiming Doakes had begun repeatedly stalking him. Morgan stated that these increasingly aggressive actions were causing him to fear for his safety and the safety of his sister, Debra Morgan, another Miami Metro employee.  Tensions surrounding the Bay Harbor Butcher investigation hit a boiling point when the FBI announced that the killer was most likely an employee within Miami Metro’s own homicide department. A number of suspicious snags—disappearing video footage, an incoherent manifesto, and an AC power outage in the interim morgue—coupled with the unusual selection of victims, landed Miami Metro squarely within the FBI’s suspicions. The killer appeared to be someone with both law enforcement sympathies and access to law enforcement property. Taking no chances, the FBI froze all Miami Metro detectives and personnel out of the investigation, much to their chagrin.  When the investigation began, law enforcement was not sure whether the Butcher was still operating in Miami. It was possible that the explosive media coverage had prompted him or her to go into hiding. However, on October 10th, it became very clear that the Butcher was almost certainly still active and in Miami. Park rangers stumbled upon an active crime scene in the Everglades. From its haphazard state, it appeared that the rangers had interrupted a murder and cover-up in-process, which later forensic analysis would confirm matched perfectly the method and manner of the Bay Harbor Eighteen. What they were not able to find, however, was the person who did it. Two days earlier, Doakes, who had been extrajudicially stalking Morgan for weeks, had finally lost track of his target. In frustration, he utilized mechanisms available to law enforcement under the Stored Communications Act (“SCA”), reaching out to Morgan’s cell service provider as a way of retrieving Morgan’s location. Instead of seeking a warrant, Doakes used an “EMERGENCY SITUATION DISCLOSURE” form provided by Verizon Wireless (Verizon), Morgan’s service provider. Below the title of the document, the form states that, “Upon receipt of this completed form, Verizon may divulge records or other information to governmental entities in certain emergencies, pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 2702(b)(8) or § 2702(c)(4) or an equivalent state law. The first question on the form asks whether the situation “potentially involves the danger of death or serious bodily injury to a person, necessitating the immediate release of information relating to that emergency.” Doakes checked the box labeled, “YES.” Under “Types of Records Being Requested,” Doakes checked the box “Location Information.” The form also asked the “Time Frame for Which Information is Requested,” and here Doakes wrote “current.” Doakes signed the document on October 8th, 2010, and faxed it to Verizon.  For the next several days, Doakes received location data from Morgan’s phone. According to Doakes, there was a 30-minute delay between when Morgan’s phone was “pinged” to when the police received real-time location information. On October 10th, CSLI data from a ping showed that the phone was in a remote part of the Everglades. The next ping showed the phone at a service station ten miles away. Based on this information, Doakes concluded that Morgan was likely traveling west along Florida State Road 9336 back towards Miami. Doakes called Special Agent Lundy to request he and 

his fellow FBI agents search for Morgan. The agents located Morgan at a drive thru in Miami, where he was taken into custody without incident. After searching Morgan’s car, the agents discovered a set of six knives, several rolls of plastic wrap, the chemical agent luminol, and various other tools in the trunk. A few hours later, federal agents searched the same remote location of the Everglades where Morgan’s phone pinged and discovered the crime scene, along with the body of notorious Miami drug kingpin Hector Astrada.  Morgan was charged with one count of first-degree murder. Because the crime occurred in the Florida Everglades, Morgan was tried in federal court. Prior to trial, Morgan moved to suppress the GPS data provided by Verizon. He argued that the Government’s seizure of the records violated the Fourth Amendment because they had been obtained without a warrant supported by probable cause. The District Court denied the motion. At trial, the government called famous FBI agent and renowned data specialist Vincent Scuteri to testify. With the cell-site data provided by the wireless carrier, Scuteri was able to create maps showing that Morgan’s phone was within a quarter mile of the location of the murder around the time during which the murder happened. In the Government’s view, the location records cinched the case, confirming that Morgan was “right where the murder was at the exact time of the murder.”  The Government also sought to enter testimony about the Bay Harbor Eighteen, including photographs of the bodies, under Rule 404(b)(2). Morgan also moved to suppress this evidence as substantially more prejudicial than probative. He alleged that the evidence’s graphic content, coupled with the media frenzy that was the Bay Harbor Butcher case, would undoubtedly inflame the jury. The State countered that the evidence was admissible to establish Morgan’s motive, intent, and unique method. The district court denied Morgan’s motion here as well.  The jury convicted Morgan of first-degree murder and sentenced him to death. He now appeals his conviction and sentence. II. ANALYSIS On appeal, Morgan argues that the trial court erred in two ways. First, he argues that the collection of real-time location data from a cell phone should constitute a Fourth Amendment search. Second, he argues that the trial court erred in admitting other-acts evidence pursuant to Rule 404(b) of the Federal Rules of Evidence. A.  Sergeant Doakes collected Morgan’s cell phone data pursuant to measures outlined in the SCA.  The SCA is a detailed statute that addresses the collection of cell phone subscriber records.  18 U.S.C. §§ 2701–2712.  Within this statutory scheme, there are numerous ways for law enforcement to obtain information from a third-party provider.  Id.  However, agents of the government must generally obtain a search warrant in order to do so.  Id.  A “good faith exception” to this warrant requirement 

exists, allowing for disclosure when a provider believes “in good faith” that “an emergency involving danger of death or serious physical injury” exists.  18 U.S.C. § 2702.  Both parties agree today that (1) the data collected by Sergeant Doakes is within the scope of that which is covered by the SCA and (2) that is does not fall under the good faith exception.  The Fourth Amendment provides in relevant part that “[t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated.” Its basic purpose “is to safeguard the privacy and security of individuals against arbitrary invasions by government officials.” Camara v. Mun. Ct. of City and Cnty. of San Francisco, 387 U.S. 523, 528 (1967). “For much of our history, Fourth Amendment search doctrine was ‘tied to common-law trespass’ and focused on whether the Government ‘obtains information by physically intruding on a constitutionally protected area.’” Carpenter v. United States, 585 U.S. 296, 304 (2018) (quoting United States v. Jones, 565 U.S. 400, 405, 406 n.3 (2012)).  “More recently, the Court has recognized that ‘property rights are not the sole measure of Fourth Amendment violations.’”  Id. (quoting Soldal v. Cook Cnty., 506 U.S. 56, 64 (1992).  In Katz v. United States, the Court held that the Fourth Amendment “protects people, not places.” 389 U.S. 347, 351 (1967).  In doing so, it clarified that the Amendment’s protections extend beyond the purely physical.  The ‘trespass doctrine’ of prior years fell to the wayside, with the court concluding that “the reach of the Amendment cannot turn upon the presence or absence of a physical intrusion into any given enclosure.”  Id. at 353.  Katz established a test for determining when there is a reasonable expectation of privacy upon which one may rely, stating that “what a person knowingly exposes to the public, even in his home or office, is not a subject of Fourth Amendment protection.  But what he seeks to preserve as private, even in an area accessible to the public, may be constitutionally protected.”  Id. at 351.  In sum, “the capacity to claim the protection of the Fourth Amendment depends not upon a property right in the invaded space, but upon whether the area was one in which there was a reasonable expectation of freedom from government intrusion.”  Cong. Rsch. Serv., Amdt. 4.3.3 Katz and Reasonable Expectation of Privacy Test, CONSTITUTION ANNOTATED, https://constitution.congress.gov/browse/essay/amdt4-3-3/ALDE_00013717/. (last visited May 19, 2026).  A few years later, United States v. Miller, would curtail the sweeping privacy protections afforded by Katz. 425 U.S. 435 (1976). In Miller, the Court held that an individual “takes the risk, in revealing his affairs to another, that the information will be conveyed by that person to the Government.”  Id. at 443.  This privacy exception, later dubbed the “third-party doctrine,” continues to hold that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy for information voluntarily given over to third parties, “even if 

the information is revealed in the assumption that it will be used for a limited purpose and the confidence placed in the third party will not be betrayed.”  Id.  Admittedly, the world which produced Miller no longer exists.  Phones, computers, and other electronics have exceeded mere means of communication; they are, for most of us, inextricable from daily life.  Notwithstanding these changes, the Court has been reticent to directly address Miller or the doctrine.  Carpenter is the Court’s first and only stab at addressing the doctrine insofar as it relates to cell phone data.  But Carpenter did not dispose of the doctrine; it merely limited it.  Id.  In Carpenter, the Court held that seven days’ worth of historical CSLI data obtained from a wireless carrier, and pursuant to an order issued under the Stored Communications Act, constitutes a “search.”  Id. at 313.  And the Court’s first go at this issue has never been superseded. The Court has, on occasion, addressed the privacy rights inherent in other forms of non-locative data collection. See Riley v. California, 573 U.S. 373 (2014) (holding that a warrant is required to search the digital information and contents of a cell phone); U.S. v. Jones, 565 U.S. 400 (2012) (concluding that attachment of a GPS device to a vehicle and use of that device to monitor the vehicle’s location is a search within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment). However, those privacy concerns arose from very different contexts, and each posed a greater privacy risk than the one Morgan attempts to analogize to here.  The real-time location data obtained in this instance did not implicate anywhere near the scope or sensitivity of data that the Court stressed was present in Riley and did not generate the several weeks’ worth of personal information collected in Jones. It is true that neither of these cases, nor any others, have set a bright-line rule. However, compared to the Court’s previous low-water marks, Morgan has failed to demonstrate that he was subject to a Fourth Amendment-implicating search. B.  Morgan next argues that the district court erred in allowing testimony about the “Bay Harbor Eighteen” to be brought in under Rule 404(b)(2).  “We review the district court’s admission of evidence of past acts under federal Rule of Evidence 404(b) for abuse of discretion, and we will not reverse unless the evidence clearly had no bearing on the case and was introduced solely to prove the defendant’s propensity to commit criminal acts.”  United States v. Williams, 796 F.3d 951, 958 (8th Cir. 2015) (quoting United States v. Bassett, 762 F.3d 681, 687 (8th Cir. 2014)).  Fundamental to our adversarial system is the principle that a person should be convicted for what they have done, not for who they are.  In keeping with this tradition, Federal Rule of Evidence 404(a) excludes evidence of “a person’s character or character trait” to prove conduct consistent with that character on a specific occasion.  The rule recognizes, however, that uncharged acts can have an important bearing on issues in a case beyond simply demonstrating an individual’s propensity to 

behave in a certain way: Rule 404(b)(2) states that evidence of any other crime, wrong, or act “may be admissible for another purpose, such as proving motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake, or lack of accident.”  Rule 404(b) has been repeatedly characterized as a rule of “inclusion, such that evidence offered for permissible purposes is presumed admissible absent a contrary determination.”  Williams, 796 F.3d at 958.  Our circuit, like most others, has adopted a four-part test to determine whether a district court abused its discretion in admitting 404(b) evidence.  This methodology is guided by the Supreme Court’s dicta in Huddleston v. United States, 485 U.S. 681 (1988).  Evidence is properly admitted if “(1) it is relevant to a material issue; (2) it is similar in kind and not overly remote in time to the crime charged; (3) it is supported by sufficient evidence; and (4) its potential prejudice does not substantially outweigh its probative value.”  Williams, 796 F.3d at 959 (quoting United States v. Robinson, 639 F.3d 489, 494 (8th Cir. 2011)). Huddleston also set forth the standard that any dispute over whether a defendant actually committed the other act is a Rule 104(b) issue of conditional relevance: the condition is met if a reasonable jury could find by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed the other act. 485 U.S. at 690.  Morgan argues that the evidence and description of the Bay Harbor Eighteen was improperly admitted because (a) the evidence was irrelevant and (b) its potential for prejudicial effect substantially outweighed its probative value.  We conclude that a reasonable jury could, by a preponderance of the evidence, find that Morgan committed the other eighteen murders. That said, we disagree with his contentions and address both in turn.  The evidence was properly admitted for the purpose of establishing Morgan’s motive, preparation, and intent.  These are permitted purposes under Rule 404(b).  The testimony presented by the State was intended to demonstrate that (1) the Eighteen were killed in a highly specific and unique fashion which shares no equal, save for the circumstances of the present case, (2) the shared method in which the Eighteen were killed was detailed enough such as to suggest premeditation, and (3) all Eighteen victims shared the common characteristic of having been previously tried for murder and subsequently exonerated.  First, the evidence was relevant under Rule 404(b). Malice aforethought and premeditation are essential elements to first-degree murder.  The Government argued that Morgan, motivated by his law enforcement sympathies and a sense of vigilantism, targeted Estrada for his criminal history. Morgan argued that he did not know Estrada and therefore had no reason to target him.  This evidence was probative of whether the Morgan had the necessary intent to kill Estrada.  The identities of the Eighteen help to bolster the State’s contention, reframing a single, isolated incident which could have been spurred by any number of motivations and committed by nearly anyone into the next installment 

in a series of similarly motivated crimes.  We therefore conclude that the evidence was relevant to prove the elements of first-degree murder. Morgan’s second argument regarding the admissibility of the testimony is that its probative value is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect.  “Though all Rule 404(b) evidence is inherently prejudicial, the test under Rule 403 is whether its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice.  Cook Cnty., 454 F.3d at 941.  It is true that evidence of prior killings, when this gruesome in nature, may prove an affront to ordinary senses; this capacity is only heightened when such deaths are part of the high-profile manhunt for a serial killer.  However, “we give great deference to a district court’s application of the Rule 403 balancing test.” United States v. Lupino, 301 F.3d 642, 646 (8th Cir. 2002).  Consequently, even though the district court’s judgment may be doubted, absent a clear showing of gross error, we must rely upon it.  Moreover, courts have routinely allowed for the admission of graphic photographs and testimony when offered to prove essential elements of a case. See U.S. v. Briseño, 88 F. Supp. 3d 849, 851 (N.D. Ind. 2015) (finding no unfair prejudice in the admittance of post-mortem photos). As already stated, the strikingly similar circumstances between these cases offer significant probative value.  Thus, any prejudice Morgan points to falls short of the substantially prejudicial standard. The district court also gave a limiting instruction to mitigate the risk of any unfair prejudice.  The court told the jury to consider the evidence “only for the purpose of deciding whether the defendant had the state of mind, knowledge, or intent necessary...or a motive or plan to commit the acts charged” or whether the defendant “acted with a method of operation as evidenced by a unique pattern.”  Courts have historically “been reluctant to find that the evidence was unfairly prejudicial when the district court gave an appropriate limiting instruction.”  United States v. Kent, 531 F.3d 642, 651 (8th Cir. 2008) (quoting United States v. Loveless, 139 F.3d 587, 593 (8th Cir. 1998)).  Because the limiting instruction accurately stated the law and mitigated the testimony’s prejudicial effect, the district court did not plainly err. In light of the district court’s careful analysis and appropriate limiting instruction, we cannot conclude that the court abused its discretion by admitting the evidence of the Bay Harbor Eighteen.  III. CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the decision of the District Court.   It is so ordered.    JUDGE AHO, concurring.    

 JUDGE HINTON, dissenting.   I agree with the majority that our circuit has traditionally considered, and applied, Rule 404(b) as a “rule of inclusivity.”  However, this approach so grossly misconstrues the intent behind the rule and needlessly threatens to undermine basic bedrock of our judicial system, that I am unable to remain silent.  Our circuit’s continued embrace of the “third-party” doctrine is a similarly misguided custom, an antiquated practice which conjures imagery of payphones, not cell phones.  The Thirteenth Circuit has long refused to confront internal inconsistencies in its own legal reasoning, an unfortunate habit which disproportionately imperils those within our jurisdiction.  It is time, for the law’s sake and theirs, for us to finally catch up.  A. The collection of real-time location data must constitute a “search” within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.  Few federal circuits have addressed the question so far, but many state courts have already confronted this eventuality.  See Commonwealth v. Pacheco, 263 A.3d 626 (Pa. 2021) (concluding that when prosecutors sought and obtained real-time information about the defendant’s location by pinging his cell phone, they conducted a ‘search’ under both the federal and state constitutions);  Tracey v. State, 152 So. 3d 504 (Fla. 2014) (finding defendant had a subjective expectation of privacy in real time cell site location data and use of such data for tracking required a warrant).      In Carpenter, the Supreme Court declined to address whether the collection of real-time location data constitutes a search within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.  585 U.S. at 316.  (“Our decision today is a narrow one.  We do not express a view on matters not before us: real-time CSLI or ‘tower dumps’”).  This suggests that the Court recognized a fundamental and meaningful difference between the historical and real-time CSLI.  While historical data may be acceptable to gather without a warrant, so long as the data spans less than seven days, real-time location data should always be considered a search.  This is because the collection of real-time location data results in a greater privacy intrusion than that involved with historical CSLI data.  GPS location data is far more accurate than the historical CSLI data gathered by cell tower triangulation.  While CSLI data has an accuracy range somewhere between 660 feet and four square miles, most GPS chips are accurate to within sixteen feet. Laura Hecht-Felella, The Fourth Amendment in the Digital Age, BRENNAN CENTER FOR JUSTICE (Mar. 18, 2021), https://www.brennancenter.org/media/7399/download/Fourth-Amendment-Digital-Age-Carpenter.pdf.  One’s location alone can reveal a “wealth of detail about her familial, political, professional, religious, and sexual associations.”  Jones, 565 U.S. at 415 (Sotomayor, J., concurring).  See People v. Weaver, 12 N.Y.3d 433 (N.Y. 2009) (“Disclosed in [GPS] data . . . will be trips the 

indisputably private nature of which takes little imagination to conjury: trips to the psychiatrist, the plastic surgeon, the abortion clinic, the AIDS treatment center, the strip club, the criminal defense attorney, the by-the-hour motel, the union meeting, the mosque, synagogue, or church, the gay bar and on and on.”)  Thus, Carpenter’s warrant requirement should apply to real-time data collection.  For similar reasons, the third-party doctrine must be overturned.  The doctrine, stemming from Miller, instructs us that individuals lack a reasonable expectation of privacy when they voluntarily relinquish their data over to third parties, even if said third parties assure them it will not be distributed elsewhere.  At one time, the doctrine had “the virtue of simplicity and administrability,” as well as “the great virtue of corresponding to the core intuitions of the citizenry in terms of expectations of privacy and confidentiality.”  Lucas Issacharoff & Kyle Wirshba, Restoring Reason to the Third Party Doctrine, 100 MINN. L. REV. 985, 987 (2016).  This is no longer the case.  The third-party doctrine is “ill-suited to the digital age, in which people reveal a great deal of information about themselves to third parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks.”  Jones, at 417 (Sotomayor, J., concurring).  No longer does the surrender of third-party look like the “limited forms of interaction” which informed Miller. Isaacharoff, Restoring Reason, supra, at 988.  “Communications, commerce, and finance increasingly take place online and operate through private intermediaries,” resulting in “an immense amount of personal information unprotected by the Fourth Amendment.” Id.  Moreover, there is a very compelling argument that third-party doctrine might not even apply to this type of data collection.  Indeed, when a phone company tracks down a device by intentionally activating its GPS system, it is not collecting information for business purposes at all, but instead acting solely as an agent of law enforcement.  See Commonwealth v. Almonor, 120 N.E.3d 1183 (Mass. 2019) (stating that data obtained when a cell phone is pinged would not otherwise be collected and retained by the service provider).  “Thus, the third-party doctrine, which hinges in part on a person’s voluntary sharing of data with a third party for its business use, may have no application to this sort of data collection.”  Shea Denning, Conducting Surveillance and Collecting Location Data in a Post-Carpenter World, Part II, N.C. Crim. L. Blog (Oct. 5, 2020).  In sum, the collection of real-time location data ought to constitute a Fourth Amendment search, and the third-party doctrine is a legal dinosaur which we should have considered wholly extinct long before this case.  What may have been reasonable in 1979 is profoundly out of date in 2026. Thus, I would reverse the decision of the District Court.  B. Furthermore, the other-acts evidence at issue here was improperly admitted and should have been suppressed. Rule 404(b) should be read as “inclusive” only in relation to the purposes it permits, not in that it allows for a lenient standard of admission.  

Federal courts have grown increasingly permissive in allowing the admission of other-acts evidence, threatening to undermine the bedrock ban on character evidence.  Daniel J. Capra & Liesa L. Richter, Character Assassination: Amending Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b) to Protect Criminal Defendants, 118 COLUM. L. REV. 770, 778 (2018). Time and time again, Rule 404(b) has been mischaracterized by many federal circuit courts as a rule of inclusion.  Id.  This is an incomplete picture.  It is “a rule both of inclusion—with respect to structure—and exclusion—with respect to purpose.”  Dorie Klein, One Step Backward: The Ninth Circuit’s Unfortunate Rule 404(b) Decision in United States v. Lague, LOY. L.A. L. REV. 739, 751 n.41 (2022) (emphasis added).    This overly permissive reading improperly reverses the burden associated. The proponent of the evidence is relieved of the burden of establishing that the evidence is offered for a non-propensity purpose, while the opponent is saddled with establishing its inadmissibility.  This cuts against the rule’s purpose.   A more demanding standard, such a heightened balancing test, perhaps paired with a more realistic assessment of the likely prejudice, could help to protect criminal defendants and preserve the original intent behind the rule.  A handful of circuits have diagnosed and attempted to cure this problem.  The Third, Fourth, and Seventh circuits have taken a different reading of “inclusivity,” bolstered by historical analysis.  These circuits have held that Rule 404(b) is “inclusive only to the extent that it allows evidence of other crimes, wrongs, and acts to be admitted for relevant proper purposes beyond those spelled out in the non-exhaustive Rule 404(b)(2) list.”  Capra, Character Assassination, supra, at 788.  These circuits have recognized that, while the nineteenth and twentieth centuries saw great debate over whether the common law prior-acts rule was “exclusionary” or “inclusionary,” the debate was limited in scope.  See U.S. v. Caldwell, 760 F.3d 267, 275 (3d Cir. 2014).  It “concerned whether the list of previously recognized non-propensity purposes was exhaustive (or ‘exclusive’), or whether any non-propensity purpose, even if not previously recognized, could support admission of the prior act evidence (the ‘inclusive’ approach).” Id. at 275.  When the Federal Rules of Evidence were adopted in 1975, it effectively ended the debate. Id.  The text of the new Rule 404(b)(2), provided that prior act evidence “may be admissible for another purpose, such as proving motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake, or lack of accident.”  Fed. R. Evid. 404(b)(2).   “By introducing the list of permissible purposes with the words “such as,” the drafters made clear that the list was not exclusive or otherwise limited to a strictly defined class.”  Caldwell, 760 F.3d at 276.  The rule’s mischaracterization has led to impermissible lenience on the part of both courts and prosecutors.  The Third Circuit, in United States v. Davis, noted that, when a district court admits prior-acts evidence, its reasoning “should be detailed and on the record; a mere recitation of the purposes in Rule 404(b)(2) is insufficient.” 726 F.3d 434, 441 (3d Cir. 2013).  “In proffering such 

evidence, the government must explain how it fits into a chain of inferences—a chain that connects the evidence to a proper purpose, no link of which is a forbidden propensity inference.”  Id.  Unfortunately, however, “these requirements are ‘so often honored in the breach’ that they resonate ‘about as loudly as the proverbial tree that no one heard fall in the forest.’”  Id. (quoting United States v. Givan, 320 F.3d 452, 466 (3d Cir. 2003)).  As a result, many prior acts have been admitted after undergoing analysis that is threadbare at best.  See U.S. v. Geddes, 844 F.3d 983, 991 (8th Cir. 2017) (allowing testimony about a threatening text message from four years prior to serve as evidence of intent);  U.S. v. Smith, 741 F.3d 1211, 1226 (11th Cir. 2013) (allowing two prior convictions for possession of cocaine to serve as evidence the defendant intended to distribute cocaine). While Rule 404(b)(2) does allow for more than the admission of prior convictions, the uncharged acts offered here have only the barest attachments to the crime for which Morgan was convicted.   There is scarce evidence to connect Morgan, or this crime, to the “Bay Harbor Eighteen,” even considering the extremely lenient 104(b) standard.  There is no doubt that the testimony allowed by the district court here was grossly prejudicial and admitted in flagrant disregard of the protections that both Rule 104 and Rule 404 were meant to afford.  Beyond being flimsily connected, the testimony was highly graphic in nature and also part of a large-scale media campaign that doubtlessly risks inflaming the passions of the jury. Courts have, on many occasions, found it reasonable to allow the admittance of extremely graphic photographs and testimony.  However, this occurs when it is both relevant and necessary to the government’s case, or, when involving an unrelated, uncharged act, supported by additional evidence.  See Briseño, at 851; U.S. v. Corley, 519 F.3d 716, 276 (7th Cir. 2008).  In this matter, the government did not need to connect the Eighteen to Morgan beyond a reasonable doubt; the government’s burden only required them to connect him to Astrada.  Moreover, no additional evidence served to bolster the evidence’s connection to this case, save for forbidden propensity inferences.  Therefore, not only are the testimony and photographs unfairly prejudicial, but also their probative value in no way, and certainly not substantially, outweighs that risk of prejudice. Nor can toothless attempts at sequestration waive these concerns away.  The majority, and our case law, places too much faith in the district court’s limiting instructions.  It cannot be presumed that juries follow instructions regarding bad acts evidence.  For quite some time, it has been recognized that “the practical and human limitations of the jury system cannot be ignored.”  Bruton v. United States, 391 U.S. 123, 135 (1968).  “Jurors tend to draw a complete, integrated image of personality from negative, fragmented information about a person, and it appears certain that when the law requests jurors to give character evidence a restricted use, it demands a mental gymnastic which is beyond, not only the jury’s power, but anybody else’s.”  Daniel J. Buzzetta, Balancing the Scales: 

Limiting the Prejudicial Effect of Evidence Rule 404(B) through Stipulation, 21 FORDHAM URB. L. J. 389, 391 (quoting Robert G. Lawson, Credibility and Character, A Different Look at an Interminable Problem, 50 NOTRE DAME L. REV. 758, 774 (1975)) (cleaned up).   For the foregoing reasons, I would reverse the decision of the District Court and remand for a new trial.                          

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES OCTOBER 2026 TERM DEXTER MORGAN Petitioner, v.           No. 850-418 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Respondent.  ORDER GRANTING CERTIORARI 
The petition for writ of certiorari is granted. The parties are directed to address the following questions: I. Whether this Court should overturn Miller and invalidate the third-party doctrine.  II. Whether Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b) is “inclusive” only to the extent that its list of “permitted uses” is not exhaustive.     